# Kotler

1. Introduction

Kotler analyzes marketing numbers and performs SWOT analsysis for the generation of alternative strategies.
This app enables users to manipulate marketing data (number and text) in the areas of retailing, digital marketing, sales,
and marketing strategy. The marketing strategy simulator takes inspiration from the SWOT Analysis framework, whereby alternative 
strategies are developed by combining or interacting the variables of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats(SWOT).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Goals of the app:
a. To calculate marketing numbers
b. To enable users combine different numbers to ascertain their desired metrics.
c. To generate alternative strategies when the user inputs certain strategy keywords (eg. Staff strength, Cost advantage, High digital coverage, Emerging markets etc).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Technologies deployed:
a. HTML
b. CSS
c. JavaScript

This mainly a frontend application, which can execute be used locally on the user's browser.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Key functionalities:
 - Retailing, digital marketing, and sales calculators:
  a. Select: this selects the app that the user wants to utilize. The display of apps are mutually exclusive - meaning no two apps will display at the same time.
  b. onload() : this event listener makes sure that the select element is ready to be selected.
  c. onchange() : this event listener makes sure that for every selected index (using a method <select id>.selectedIndex[arrayIndex]), its corresponding app displays, and is ready for use.
 
 - SWOT:
  a. Iteration: for let loops are used to call the children nodes (all inputs) of the four parent node (form) elements.
     Two forms must be filled with strategy keywords, to enable interaction between their values, and thus produce alternative
     strategies in its designated quadrant (div). 
  b. 'Change' eventlisteners are used to trigger the interaction between the forms in the SWOT matrix.
  c. The SWOT alternative strategies are generated through the interaction of values in this combination:
     i. The input values of "Strengths" vs "Opportunities" backed up by regular expressions (regex) that contains alternative InnerHTML to render on the corresponding quadrants.
     ii. The input values of "Weaknesses" vs "Opportunities" ___________Same as abaove___________________
     iii. The input values of "Strengths" vs "Threats" ________Same as above________________
     iv. The input values of "Weaknesses" vs "Threats" _________Same as above______________
    
  d. The regex method used is match(). When a user's 'Iterated input.value' matches certain keywords in the regular expression, the returned string
     is attached via the .innerHTML method on the corresponding div that produces the results of the interaction between any two forms.
    
  e. The alternative strategies are generated by carefully designing what strategy variables match the other, and they make sense in real life.
  f. For the algorithm, a matrix multiplication method is used to generate nearly 4000 patterns of strategic recommendation - using Excel.
  g. The results of this recommendation are returned in the regex drawing from the matching of keywords between any two form input elements.
  h. Generally, the algorithm tools deployed are: if - else conditionals, match(), and for - let loops.
    
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    
 5. Challenges:
    Generating the strategy patterns for the SWOT app requires strategic exposure and consideration for what makes business sense in the real world.
    So, it takes time to generate each unique strategic recommendation. There are plenty regex involved in the code.
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    
 6. Key takeaways:
 a. Two or more form elements can share an event listener, so long as there is a common event listener between them.
 b. Instead of listing all the inputs and their IDs, it is easier to obtain them through their parent to make the code leaner - like seeking permission
    from a parent before calling their child. 
 c. Responsive design must pritoritize mobile first, during the user interface design.
 
